[MUSIC]
In previous video, we realized that
mean encodings cannot be used as is and
requires some kind of regularization
on training part of data.
Now, we'll carry out four different
methods of regularization, namely,
doing a cross-validation loop
to construct mean encodings.
Then, smoothing based on
the size of category.
Then, adding random noise.
And finally, calculating expanding
mean on some parametrization of data.
We will go through all of
these methods one by one.
Let's start with CV loop regularization.
It's a very intuitive and robust method.
For a given data point, we don't want to
use target variable of that data point.
So we separate the data into
K-node intersecting subsets,
or in other words, folds.
To get mean encoding value for
some subset, we don't use data points
from that subset and estimate
the encoding only on the rest of subset.
We iteratively walk through
all the data subsets.
Usually, four or five folds
are enough to get decent results.
You don't need to tune this number.
It may seem that we have completely
avoided leakage from target variable.
Unfortunately, it's not true.
It will become apparent if we perform
leave one out scheme to separate the data.
I'll return to it a little later,
but first let's learn how to
apply this method in practice.
Suppose that our training
data is in a DFTR data frame.
We will add mean encoded features
into another train new data frame.
In the outer loop,
we iterate through stratified K-fold
iterator in order to separate
training data into chunks.
X_tr is used to estimate the encoding.
X_val is used to apply
estimating encoding.
After that,
we iterate through all the columns and
map estimated encodings
to X_val data frame.
At the end of the outer loop we fill
train new data frame with the result.
Finally, some rare categories may
be present only in a single fold.
So we don't have the data to
estimate target mean for them.
That's why we end up with some nans.
We can fill them with global mean.
As you can see,
the whole process is very simple.
Now, let's return to
the question of whether
we leak information about
target variable or not.
Consider the following example.
Here we want to encode Moscow
via leave-one-out scheme.
For the first row, we get 0.5,
because there are two 1s and
two 0s in the rest of rows.
Similarly, for
the second row we get 0.25 and so on.
But look closely, all the resulting and
the resulting features.
It perfect splits the data,
rows with feature mean equal or
greater than 0.5 have target 0 and
the rest of rows has target 1.
We didn't explicitly use target variable,
but our encoding is biased.
Furthermore, this effect remains valid
even for the KFold scheme, just milder.
So is this type of regularization useless?
Definitely not.
In practice,
if you have enough data and use four or
five folds, the encodings will work
fine with this regularization strategy.
Just be careful and
use correct validation.
Another regularization
method is smoothing.
It's based on the following idea.
If category is big,
has a lot of data points, then we can
trust this to [INAUDIBLE] encoding, but
if category is rare it's the opposite.
Formula on the slide uses this idea.
It has hyper parameter alpha that
controls the amount of regularization.
When alpha is zero,
we have no regularization, and
when alpha approaches infinity
everything turns into globalmean.
In some sense alpha is equal to
the category size we can trust.
It's also possible to use some other
formula, basically anything that punishes
encoding software categories
can be considered smoothing.
Smoothing obviously won't
work on its own but
we can combine it with for
example, CD loop regularization.
Another way to regularize encodence is to
add some noise without regularization.
Meaning codings have better quality for
the [INAUDIBLE] data than for
the test data.
And by adding noise, we simply degrade
the quality of encoding on training data.
This method is pretty unstable,
it's hard to make it work.
The main problem is the amount
of noise we need to add.
Too much noise will turn
the feature into garbage,
while too little noise
means worse regularization.
This method is usually used together
with leave one out regularization.
You need to diligently fine tune it.
So, it's probably not the best option
if you don't have a lot of time.
The last regularization method I'm going
to cover is based on expanding mean.
The idea is very simple.
We fix some sorting order of our data and
use only rows from zero to n minus
one to calculate encoding for row n.
You can check simple implementation
in the code snippet.
Cumsum stores cumulative sum
of target variable up to
the given row and
cumcnt stores cumulative count.
This method introduces the least amount
of leakage from target variable and
it requires no hyper parameter tuning.
The only downside is that
feature quality is not uniform.
But it's not a big deal.
We can average models
on encodings calculated from
different data permutations.
It's also worth noting that
it is expanding mean method
that is used in CatBoost grading,
boosting to it's library,
which proves to perform magnificently
on data sets with categorical features.
Okay, let's summarize what
we've discussed in this video.
We covered four different
types of regularization.
Each of them has its own advantages and
disadvantages.
Sometimes unintuitively we
introduce target variable leakage.
But in practice, we can bear with it.
Personally, I recommend CV loop or
expanding mean methods for
practical tasks.
They are the most robust and easy to tune.
This is was regularization.
In the next video, I will tell
you about various extensions and
practical applications of mean encodings.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]